Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org
We just drove every day
looking to kill people. That's all I did.
Every single day. I got in a car.
looking to find somebody on the other side
just to kill them.
The sound of gunfire
on the streets of Philadelphia.
as organized crime factions
have declared all-out war.
There was no plan.
We just shot every bullet we had.
It was just kill.
Just… just kill. Just… just kill.
And… that's what I did.
Every time you turned around.
there was another killing.
It's just more evidence
that a full-scale mob war is underway.
The shooting started happening everywhere.
It's one hit after the other.
more and more audacious.
These guys are out of their fucking minds.
It's like something out of The Godfather.
We had to cut off the head of the snake.
It was a huge operation.
Failure wasn't an option.
When people think of the Mafia.
they think of New York.
But Philadelphia in the '90s
was 100 times more brutal.
It's a show.
It's a show where they kill somebody.
It's the affiliation.
I grew up around the Gambino family.
one of the five crime families
in New York.
But I'd try to find excuses
to come down here to Philadelphia.
It was just a ton of money.
a lot of fun. a lot of adrenaline.
Prostitution. loan sharking. drugs.
and it was 24-7.
But the biggest thing for Mob guys
isn't just the money.
It's the life itself.
Philadelphia guys are
like the Little Rascals.
They're a wild bunch of guys.
Shooting shots all day.
Stay out all night.
They all grew up
on the same block in South Philly.
These guys are tight-knit.
In the Philly Mob.
everybody knows everybody somehow.
Everybody is just one way
or another connected.
And it was fun. honestly. back then.
If you were associated with the Mob.
you could do whatever you want.
You pull up in a brand-new Cadillac.
You wanna go into a club.
you go in the front.
It was really fun.
Guys in New York would bad-mouth
the Philadelphia Mob.
They'd say. "I can send down two killers
and finish them off."
And I'd laugh. I'd say. "Listen.
you guys don't know these guys.
and they're dangerous."
Frankie "Stale" Stillitano
found stuffed in a car trunk.
Mob murders are becoming almost routine.
Philly guys held up their own
against anybody. any crew.
New York. Chicago. you name it.
If they had to go up to bat. they'd bat.
They hit the ball.
But what makes Philadelphia different
than New York is Atlantic City.
Atlantic City was always
Philly's territory.
And when casinos came.
we started to see dollar signs.
All the hotels. the gambling.
the construction.
It was a ton of money for the Mob.
And at the time. the boss of Philadelphia
and Atlantic City was Nicky Scarfo.
Nicky Scarfo was a psychopath.
I put 40 years in law enforcement.
and he's the most vicious person
I've experienced in my life.
But I'll give you an example.
He killed a man with a butter knife.
It's a butter knife.
and you know the kind of force
you have to use
to penetrate the human body
with a butter knife?
-How you doing?
-Nothing to say.
I'm innocent. That's all.
There was a lot of violence going on
in South Philly when Nicky was in charge.
It was basically like the Wild Wild West.
Bang 'em up. shoot 'em up.
Bodies were flying everywhere.
He was ruthless. He was paranoid.
Every time you turned around.
another killing.
Nicky Scarfo. he was the most paranoid
Mob boss. cokehead.
that I could fucking think of.
The guys are found in cars and dumpsters
and on the sidewalk.
Come on. You know. you don't do that.
You don't want the bodies found.
because once the public turns against you.
then that's when the FBI get involved.
And then after that.
it's over.
Indicted today.
38 alleged key Mob figures.
among them Nicodemo Scarfo.
What do you do for a living?
I invoke my right
under the Fifth Amendment
of the United States Constitution
and decline to answer the question.
Nicky Scarfo is currently serving
a 55-year sentence in federal prison.
The demise of the Scarfo crime family
has now opened up
the Philadelphia Atlantic City underworlds
to the expanding interest of New York
and Sicilian Mafia kingpins.
So who is controlling
the Philadelphia Atlantic City Mob?
Who. if anyone.
is operating for La Cosa Nostra?
In 1991. I was appointed the supervisor
for the organized crime program
in Philadelphia.
There had never been a woman in the field
as an organized-crime supervisor.
When I arrived. Scarfo was gone.
And with Scarfo in jail.
there was a power vacuum.
So my job was to find out
who was going to be the new boss.
But where do you begin?
I've been in this business a long time.
When it comes to taking down the Mob.
nothing beats gumshoe.
You've got to get out on the street.
make informants.
and get the information you need.
We didn't have much in the way
of informants at that particular point.
and you can't work organized crime
without informants.
But then. one day.
the Philadelphia Police Department
arrested. like. a low-level criminal
associated with the Mob.
It was street shakedowns.
extorting businesses.
nothing real sophisticated.
This guy was a soldier in the Philly Mob.
So he knew who's in charge now.
When you get them cornered.
they're gonna talk.
They wanna make a deal.
These are big. tough guys.
crying to give you information.
They don't wanna go to jail.
So when they talk about this honor
and loyalty and all this omertà.
it's a bunch of tripe.
They're all quote-unquote "rats."
According to this informant.
there was a power vacuum.
but that vacuum was filled pretty quick…
by a guy called John Stanfa.
But who is John Stanfa?
When John Stanfa's name surfaces.
he's probably in his early fifties
somewhere.
You know. he's from Sicily. a made guy.
And he was getting the backing
of the five families in New York.
John Stanfa was old-school.
And the old-school Mafia was
make money. not headlines.
And the five families trusted John Stanfa
to try to calm down the violence
seen under Nicky Scarfo
and bring back order
to the Philadelphia family.
If he's the boss of the family.
he's got to be directing
criminal activities.
And we didn't know what they were
because he was just a guy
who was going to work every day.
He lived in a very nice house
over in New Jersey.
He was picked up by his chauffeur
in the morning.
And he had a business
called Continental Foods.
But we didn't have any sort of crime
to attach to him.
So that made my job harder.
We started looking at the guys
that might be working for him.
Loan sharks. petty thieves. bookmakers.
Basically low-level soldiers
bringing in the money
and kicking it up to the boss.
That's when we found the bookmaker.
Through our sources.
we picked up information
that this guy was gonna be meeting Stanfa…
…at Salvatore Avena's office.
Avena was a long-standing Mob lawyer.
We set up. uh. a camera on the front
so that we could tape
what was going on every day
in front of that law office.
Sal was well-known. Philly. South Jersey.
everybody knew who he was.
He handled a lot
of high-profile Mob cases.
And he would have a lot of guys
coming in all the time.
And eventually.
Stanfa shows up in that office.
My gut was telling me Stanfa's using
that office for criminal activities.
You just knew something was going on.
He started having his meetings
thinking it's a safe haven legally
under client-attorney privilege.
But you know what? If you're
using a law office to commit crime.
you lose that privilege.
I was working as a federal prosecutor.
The FBI came to me and said.
"If you have the guts.
we think we have enough
to bug Sal Avena's office."
And I said. "You're asking a judge
to authorize a surreptitious entry
into a respected
criminal defense lawyer's office
to put microphones in that office."
"So you're really asking that judge
to go out on a limb."
"Okay.""This is…"
"Yes. I guess I have to have the guts."
I thought we had a really good case.
And as it turned out.
the judge agreed with me.
Once you get that affidavit approved.
you want to get up and running
really. really fast.
You don't want to miss anything.
And so the pressure is on the tech guys.
People don't realize.
you just don't wake up one day and say.
"Hey. go bug Sal Avena's office.
Here's a microphone."
And you walk in and do it.
It takes a lot.
Getting prepared. watching.
making sure the comings and goings
for a week or two before.
It was a big operation.
The night of the job.
I was incredibly anxious
because if the bugging operation failed.
it's like. what is your alternative?
I mean. we would be back to square one.
We were dropped off
at the building after midnight.
Within a few seconds. we were inside.
And laser focused on our job.
Sal Avena's offices were
on the second floor.
There was a door with an alarm panel.
The lock and alarm guys
were able to bypass the alarm.
And they're in.
We had to determine
where can we place this microphone
where it has airspace
so that it can pick up conversations
but it can't be easily found?
I was in the basement connecting wires.
We were almost done.
And all of a sudden…
I got word that someone was coming
into the building.
We realized one of the lock and alarm guys
had dropped their bags
in the vestibule of the building.
Is this guy gonna look in these bags
and find tools and equipment
and then come down and find us?
Finally. they stepped back
over the bags and left.
Why he didn't look at the bags
or say something. we'll never know.
Our luck was good that day.
When they finally called me. I was having
my second glass of wine.
And then it's like. "Yes! Yes."
"Oh. thank God."
"Okay. we're gonna be up and running.
Everybody's fine."
Once we were listening.
we only have 30 days to prove
that they're involved in crimes.
Otherwise.
you have to shut everything down.
Now you have to intercept
criminal conversations
to justify to the judge
that the surveillance.
uh. should continue.
And I had agents sitting
in the squad area with reel-to-reels
listening to tapes all the time.
We were working around the clock.
Taking handwritten notes.
If you have two or three people
talking at the same time.
that can be very difficult.
Yeah. Kill them.
You being serious?
Kill them…
We weren't picking up that much.
and what we were picking up
wasn't sufficient.
What's going on? How's everything?
Good. You sound bad.
Yeah.
What are you. nasally or what?
They were just. like. shooting the breeze.
and no business was being transacted.
A lot of work went into this.
Months of investigation.
And if it turns out
no one's going in there to talk.
well. that's all wasted.
So the frustration was building.
We had six days left.
And we didn't have anything.
If we didn't come up with something
during that six-day period.
we were gonna
have to shut the operation down.
All that work. all that effort.
and it's like.
we gotta get lucky here or something.
And then. on December 3rd. 1991.
the surveillance cameras showed
John Stanfa going into Sal Avena's office.
The case agent called me and said.
"I think we've got something."
And I read the transcript.
Stanfa. "We don't want quantity.
We want quality."
"Just because a guy.
maybe he is a good earner.
or this or that. I can't go for that.
You know what I mean?"
"I don't go for no money."
"I no hungry for money
because Cosa Nostra. it's not for money."
"Cosa Nostra."
Key word.
My reaction was.
"Oh my God. this evidence is amazing."
Finally. finally. we got what we need.
Here you have.
one of the first times ever.
some Mob guy was actually saying
that term on tape.
The thing that you have to realize is
any Mob guy that was arrested.
the defense was.
"There's no such thing as La Cosa Nostra.
There's no Mob."
"This is just a social club
with. you know.
older Italians playing cards."
The defense was to deny
that this organization existed.
Well. now you have
the boss of the family talking about.
"This isn't Cosa Nostra.
We want quality. not quantity."
He's laying it out.
"This is what I want."
"And I'm not getting it."
And so. he's confirming
that he's the one in charge.
So we went from zero to.
"Wow. we might have a case here."
We thought that the Avena office
was gonna be our gold mine.
And I just really felt.
"We have a chance here
to have another major takedown
of the Philadelphia. uh. Mob."
Everyone was working hard.
And we were getting
such good intelligence on Stanfa.
But also.
we got information
that was really shocking.
It seemed like Stanfa had enemies.
Not everyone was happy
that he was the boss of the family.
Stanfa was intercepted saying.
"These guys.
they basically have no respect."
"They call us greaseballs."
According to word on the street.
the younger guys in Philadelphia.
they didn't respect John Stanfa.
He was an outsider.
And that created a lot of conflict.
When I opened the case.
we code-named it "Young Guns."
During the course of our investigation.
we determined that this group
was being led by Joey Merlino.
Joey's father and his uncle
were organized crime.
Joey was pedigree.
He associated himself
with Michael Ciancaglini.
You did not want to cross paths
Uh. tough kid.
Joey and Michael Ciancaglini.
they were best friends.
and they created their own little army.
Joey Merlino and his crew were GQ.
Wearing Gucci. Prada.
And they're flamboyant. They throw it out.
The old-time guys didn't care about that.
That's exactly the opposite
that organized crime used to stand for.
Everybody liked Joey
because Joey was a personable guy.
Dressed well. He drove nice cars.
You know. he was a handsome guy.
We went to school together.
He used to rob the lunch money
and stuff like that.
Joey was wild.
Good guy. Just crazy.
We grew up together.
That's what made us unique.
We were all friends.
whether it was
at the highest level. "supposedly."
or just measly bookmakers like myself.
You know. we all trusted each other.
Joey could pickpocket you.
and you would say. "Thank you."
You know. it was just his personality.
You know. he had a way about himself.
Joey's character to me.
and I'll put it this way.
his own guys
shouldn't fall asleep near him.
He would go in their pockets
and steal their money
while they're whacked out sleeping.
So when they woke up the next day
and they're hungover from hell.
they don't know where their money went.
Joey's like. "You spent it.
You were buying everybody drinks."
You're not gonna get young guys
listen to a guy
that's come in from Sicily into the States
telling the guys in Philadelphia.
"You're gonna listen to me now."
To me. Stanfa was a zip.
That's the term
that most high-end Americans use
for people that are born across in Italy.
They're zips.
Stanfa could have Sicilian mentality
and old school and everything.
but it doesn't work here in America.
His old school don't work here in America.
His Sicilian mentality
don't work here in America.
The Young Turks. they were. you know.
rough-and-tumble street kids.
Very immature. prone to violence.
extorting businesses and drug dealers.
And they're gonna make
a name for themselves.
They wanted to be famous.
And a number of their fathers
had been high-level people
in the Scarfo organization
and were gonna be in jail
the rest of their lives.
They felt their fathers
had paid their dues.
and now it was their time.
and this was their birthright.
John Stanfa terribly misunderstood
this situation.
He didn't understand the thirst
that Joey Merlino and his crew had
to get control of Philadelphia.
Joey was very capable of going
and putting a gun in his pants by himself.
get in the car.
and go take care of business.
So I respect him for it.
You know. you're a gangster
who's really a gangster.
John Stanfa was never gonna
tell Joey what to do.
John Stanfa made a big mistake
coming to Philly.
72-year-old Felix Bocchino
was found this morning
at the wheel of his car
on the 1.200 block of Mifflin Street.
He'd been shot three times.
The police say it has all the signs
of a classic Mob hit.
It happened very quickly.
A person. or persons. came up to the car.
It was. uh. close range.
and they fled immediately afterwards.
We hadn't had a Mob hit in seven years.
and now here's a Mob hit in the morning.
broad daylight. South Philadelphia.
Felix Bocchino was an old-time bookmaker.
and part of the Stanfa organization.
It's a gangland hit. clearly.
He still had money in his pocket.
As a former Mob reporter.
this is the way hits go down.
You hate to say it was
very efficient and smooth. but it was.
It was a very efficient and smooth hit.
Organized-crime watchers
say it at least signals a turning point
as the Philadelphia Mob enters a new era.
In my opinion.
it was a statement by Joey Merlino
that we are not gonna
follow you. John Stanfa.
It was a coup d'état.
John Stanfa just did not know
how to handle that.
But he wanted to get retaliation.
There's no question about that.
Last night. police say two gunmen
pumped five shotgun rounds into the house.
narrowly missing
29-year-old Michael Ciancaglini.
his wife. and two children.
Michael's Joey Merlino's top lieutenant.
This was a message from Stanfa.
I mean. you're firing shotguns
in the neighborhood.
There are people all around.
What are you doing?
This was unprecedented.
and it was shocking.
Traditionally.
Cosa Nostra in the United States
would not attack family.
It showed that whoever did it
had no regard
for what had been the so-called rules.
if there's rules about killing people.
It was just craziness.
And it had to be stopped.
That's your worst nightmare
because they do this on the streets.
so it's like the public can be in danger.
How do we contain this
so that we don't have more violence?
The whole time we're investigating.
and we have a wiretap up.
The agents and everybody was trying
to figure out what was gonna go on.
Then we get this interception
December 1st. 1992.
Stanfa says.
"We're going to start the war."
Oh my God.
You have two sides
actively trying to kill each other.
As dangerous as Scarfo was.
that's even more dangerous
because Scarfo.
you just had this homicidal maniac.
Now. if you double that.
you have a real problem.
I had to get Stanfa
and his crew off the street
without more people getting hurt.
So we need more intelligence on them.
My division was working hard
to develop information on Stanfa.
and we would share it with the FBI.
Street word was John Stanfa
made Joey Ciancaglini his underboss.
Joey Ciancaglini.
he's the brother of Michael Ciancaglini.
who John Stanfa tried to murder.
It is the City of Brotherly Love.
and you have two brothers
who are on the opposite sides
trying to kill one another.
Stanfa owned a restaurant
called the Warfield Diner.
And his underboss. Joey Ciancaglini.
was the manager.
We set up a camera on the front
so that we could watch him 24 hours a day.
Stanfa was spending
quite a bit of time at the diner.
Then we got authorization
to put a microphone inside.
The Warfield Diner
opened early in the morning.
And so we figured we'd have a window
of maybe… maybe three hours
to do the work in there.
So we would get our equipment prepared.
and we figured four o'clock
would be the latest to get out of there.
I was incredibly anxious
because this team is going to do something
where their lives could be in danger.
Whenever you do any of these operations.
and this one specifically. you're…
you know. you're geared up for it.
You're. uh…
You're on edge. You're a little nervous.
You're hoping that everything goes well
and nobody sees you.
It was a Mob hangout.
so they're probably armed.
And of course we're armed.
And we don't want this
to turn into an ugly situation.
We put in the microphones.
Everything's working fine.
And once we're done.
we started tidying up.
My whole group. it's like.
"Okay. we're ready to go."
"We're ready to monitor this thing."
That first morning.
one of the agents
was in the listening post.
All of a sudden. he hears…
The phone went off next to my bed.
I looked at the time.
and it was. like. 6:00 a.m.
And then I thought. "Oh no."
"Are you telling me
that one of the tech guys is hurt?"
The overnight operator said.
"I don't know. but the agent
who was working the wire.
he's gonna call you."
You feel like you're gonna have a stroke.
At least that's the way I felt.
Finally. I got the call.
and I was told that it was
Joey Ciancaglini that was shot.
It didn't take police long to realize
that they had another Mob hit
on their hands.
This time. it was inside
this luncheonette in Grays Ferry.
I turned the TV on.
and I thought I was dreaming
because the local news stations
all had cameras
focused on this luncheonette.
And they were talking about this Mob hit
that had just occurred
within an hour or two
after we had left that place that night.
Cherry Hill resident Joseph Ciancaglini
was shot five times.
Police say that he works
for Philadelphia Mob boss John Stanfa.
Joseph Ciancaglini is grievously injured
and gets taken to the hospital.
I remember the paramedic saying
that Joey wanted to blow his nose.
but they did not allow him
because they were afraid
he was going to blow literally
parts of his brains out of his nostrils.
I remember hearing
the screams of the waitress.
You know. it was just… awful.
Here was this absolutely horrific act.
It clearly did not appear to be a robbery.
Nothing was taken.
So we needed to examine
the tape from the diner.
We saw a car
with three people jumping out.
and we saw a car behind it.
which was. like.
definitely. like. a protection car.
It just takes a number of seconds.
It can't be more than ten seconds.
They run in. they shoot. and they run out.
We figured one of the shooters
was part of the Young Turks.
but it was just a dark. grainy video.
There's no way you could identify
who the gunmen were.
It was very frustrating
because here we had everything.
We had a wiretap. We had a camera.
We had. the first time ever.
a filmed attempted Mob hit.
And we just couldn't prove who did it.
Stanfa. he had come to the point
where he was gonna have to do something
about that younger faction.
I mean. to go
into Stanfa's diner like that
and to pull off a hit so brazen.
you know it's really escalating
at that point.
But at least we could monitor
most of what Stanfa was saying.
One day. we saw Stanfa going
into Sal Avena's office
with Sergio Battaglia.
who was an associate.
Then there was this wiretap interception.
which was…
astounding.
You can hear John Stanfa
and Sergio Battaglia
planning the murder
of Michael Ciancaglini and Joey Merlino.
To hear a Mob boss so angry
that he would describe in detail
how he would kill somebody.
I've never heard of… of that before.
It's always done in code.
"You take care of that matter."
You know.
"Don't bother me with the details."
They were talking about
getting rid of the bodies
and putting it in some type
of ready-made concrete.
which would harden right away.
If that wasn't astounding enough.
Stanfa said…
It was chilling.
We were all shocked.
Shocked beyond belief.
What's going to happen next?
Are things out of control here?
Now it was war.
John Stanfa's desperate.
He needs to kill Joey Merlino.
But he makes a major mistake.
He goes outside of the Mob
and gets someone crazy.
uncontrollable…
and very dangerous.
I mean. I've burned people.
I drilled them.
I will say this. I had no morals.
It was just kill.
Just… just kill. Just… just kill.
And that's what I did.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today